=head1 NAME

slicd - simple lightweight Linux cron daemon

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<slicd> is a Linux cron daemon aiming to be small, simple and lightweight. It
doesn't try to support every possible feature under the sun, and while not a
requirement is perfectly fitted to run under a supervision suite.

It comes as a few modules :

=over

=item B<slicd-parser> : to parse crontabs into one "compiled" file

The parser's job is to process all system & user crontabs and compile them into
a single file, in a ready-to-use format for the scheduler.

See B<slicd-parser>(1) for information on supported format/syntax of crontabs.

=item B<slicd-sched> : the scheduler, aka the actual cron daemon

The scheduler simply loads the compiled crontabs, determines the next time a job
needs to run and simply waits for it. It doesn't need to wake up every minute
(as most cron daemons do) and handles time changes (manual, NTP, DST...) fine.

It also doesn't actually run anything, but simply prints on its stdout one line
for each job to run, in the form I<USERNAME:COMMAND LINE>

=item B<slicd-exec> : the exec daemon, to actually run jobs

The scheduler's stdout is aimed to be piped into this daemon's stdin, which will
handle forking and executing the command line. It will report all forks & reaped
children on its stdout, as well as anything printed on a child's stdout or
stderr.

It is important to note that it doesn't do any drop of privileges or environment
changes, instead you're supposed to do this making sure it execs into the right
tools; such as one to drop privileges to a specific user, one to set up the
correct environment, etc

=back

In addition, a few extra tools are provided, meant to be used alongside
B<slicd-exec>(1) :

=over

=item B<setuid> : drop privileges to the specified user

=item B<miniexec> : minimal parsing & execing of command-line

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<slic-parser>(1), B<slicd-sched>(1), B<slicd-exec>(1), B<setuid>(1),
B<miniexec>(1)
